Before we jump into full app building mode in the next section,
I want to emphasize how amazing this Spring Boot starter concept is.
The starters are what really makes Spring Boot shine.
First,
a starter is a way to integrate a dependency on your project to get it all set
up and ready to run by simply declaring it as a dependency.
Did you catch that?
Declare a starter, and you're done.
All Spring-based apps need to specify what pieces of the
Spring framework they're going to utilize.
If you have a really complex app, you will also have a lot of dependencies,
and those dependencies will have dependencies,
and so on.
This makes version mismatches and other headaches appear.
Spring Boot starters solve those headaches by allowing
you to simply declare the starter,
and it will take care of getting all of the right
dependencies and versions in place.
Let's quickly take a look at what this looks like in
the application that we just created.
All dependencies in Maven-based Spring projects are kept in the pom.xml file.
That's at the root of the project,
so I'm going to go ahead and double-click and open it up.
If you jump to the dependencies section of the file,
you can see that we have the starter-web and the starter-test defined.
These starters set up Spring MVC and the Spring test frameworks respectively.
To get a better idea of exactly what each dependency does,
you can expand the Maven slider on the right-hand of the IDE.
Click on the app and then open the dependency section of the tree.
When I expand the spring-boot-starter-web, you should take notice of two things.
First, there is a handful of dependencies that this starter brought in.
All of these dependencies are necessary to make Spring MVC work correctly.
And second, each sub dependency has a specific version.
The Spring developers have spent a lot of time getting these
versions to all match up so that they work together out of
the box without any problems.
I'm going to go ahead and close the Maven tab and jump back to the pom.xml file.
You'll notice that when you declare a starter dependency,
you don't have to specify a version.
So how does Spring Boot know which versions to add to your project?
The answer lies at the top of the file in the
spring-boot-starter-parent declaration.
You can see we have a specific Spring Boot version declared here.
The starter-parent declares the version of all the possible
integrations that work with this version of Spring Boot.
This is sometimes referred to the BOM, or bill of materials.
You can see Spring Boot's bill of materials for your project by
right-clicking on the pom.xml file and drill into the Maven sub
menu and click Show Effective POM.
This command essentially flattens out the parent contents with the POM contents.
As you browse through this,
you can see all of the frameworks that Spring has integrated and brought in.
This is why Spring Boot is so awesome is that you no longer need to
spend time doing this because it's already done for you.
That's pretty much it for this section of the course. Coming up next, I'll quickly summarize everything that was covered.